MU Compass Detailed version:

Background: I am a 3rd year student @ Mansoura University
at college I have noticed a very huge gap between the connection between
the students, teaching assistants and professors, so after some discussion with my
colleges and TAs I have a detailed version of the problem and a solution to it.

In a summary the project about creating an app to serve all the needs for students , TAs, Professors
from schendules to real-time chat between TA,Students and professors.

The Problem is very specific to my college because the way they already communicate now,
the main communication between students, TAs and professors is throw creating groups on social media apps
every TA and Professor has his own group (WhatsApp, Telegram, Facebook) and this is a lot of distractions.
Every semester there is 2 groups for every subject we study. for example lest say this semester we will study 
Operating systems, the professor who teaches us the subject will create a group on a social media app and send to one
of the students and that student should send it to the rest of the students the same also for TA.

You may ask why the TA create a group, the professor group should be enough? 
A: Every course will be taught by one or 2 professors for lest say (300 students) one TA can not teach for 
all that number so its divided upon a number of TAs (50 student for a TA) thats why every TA has his own group.

This is very wrong because some students who are not connected with this students or not active on social media will not 
know any things about those groups and that means that they will miss a lot of announcements and assignments etc...



What problem does it solve for students?

-  Difficulty Staying Updated:
Missing out on campus events,
announcements, or news due to
scattered communication channels.

- Disorganization in Daily Life:
Struggling to manage class
schedules, assignments, and
deadlines efficiently.
Difficulty finding study groups or
partners for collaborative learning.

-  Lost Opportunities for Interaction:
Lack of a central hub for students to
discover peers with similar interests
(study groups, clubs, etc.)


What's the core functionality you're planning? 
I am planning to create an app that will solve all those problems,
- News and Feed => will show the recent news, announcements and campus events
- schedule => schedule to view the class and sections for students, also for TA and professors
- a dashboard to view all the assignments for every course, tests, and deadlines
- Real-time chatting => for every course their will be 2 groups one for the professor and 
another for the TA. Every semester those groups will be created automatically so at the begin of every semester
the student will find himself in groups for every course with the professor and with the TA. 

- Chatting => the groups should support real-time chatting, sending photos, videos, files , showing in-time notifications.
- profile => the use profile the more details about the student year, name, college ID, grades etc..


Current technical scope?
I decided to build an flutter app with the backend supported by a Node.js API.
I already built some of the API points like Auth, users endpoints using (Nest.js, MongoDB, Mongoose, MongoAtlas, Typescript).
but the problem is that I don't want to use MongoDB in this project as I already created 2 other projects with it, so I want to use 
something like PostgreSQL to sharpen my technical skills.


Which of those 8 skills you mentioned are you hoping to incorporate? IDK (Suggest :) )
maybe: SQL, PostgreSQL, Prisma, Docker, WebSockets, Message Brokers (kafaka, RabbitMQ), CI/CD
again I want to hear your suggestions here.

Timeline and constraints?
I am commited to this project for full-time development I will dedicate 8 hours daily for it. some of the constraints for 
this project to be production ready is to use the college Database but I can not have this privilege until I have a working MVP so I can talk 
my professor out and convince them to give me the access to the Database. I want to hear your thoughts on this.

Scale expectations?
First I want to create a working app that could be scaled later when its accutally being used so I dont want to overengineer it.
the expectations is that to be used by 2000 - 3000 students at the same time this is the maximum number, the acutual could be 10 students at a time or though.
